Welcome back, last week,
you learned about word vectors and
you saw that they can capture
important properties of words.
This week, you will make use of word
vectors to learn to align words in two
different languages, which will give you
your first basic translation program.
Later, I will teach you locality
sensitive hashing to speed it up.
>> Let's first get an overview of machine
translation by starting with an example of
English to French translation.
In order to translate an English word
to a French word, one way would be to
generate an extensive list of English
words and their associated French word.
If you ask the human to do this,
you would find someone who knows both
languages to start making a list.
If you want a machine to learn how to do
this, you would calculate word embeddings
associated with English and
word embeddings associated with French.
Next, retrieve the English word embedding
of a particular English word such as cats,
then find some way to transform
the English word embedding into word
embedding that has a meaning in
the French word vector space.
We will see how to convert from
the English word vector space
to the French word vector
space in a moment.
Next, you'll take
the transformed word vector and
search for word vectors in the French word
vector space that are most similar to it.
The most similar words are candidates
words for your translation.
If your machine does a good job,
it's may find the word chat,
which is the French word for cats.
You'll want to find the matrix that
can do this transformation for you.
So let's talk about transforming
vectors using matrices.
To try this out for yourself,
you can write the following code,
which is also in the notebook
associated with this lecture.
Define the matrix R, then define the
vector x, multiply x by R using np.dot,
and the result is another two dimensional
vector, which is what you saw earlier.
Please try this out for yourself.
Now that we know that there can
be a matrix that transforms
our English word vectors into
relevant French word vectors,
how do we define this transformation
matrix, which we'll denote as R?
We can start with a randomly
selected matrix R and then see how
it performs when you try to translate
the English vectors in matrix x and
compare that to the actual French word
vectors, which is in the matrix Y.
In order for this to work, you will first
need to get a subset of English words and
different equivalence,
get the respective word vectors, and
stack the word vectors in their
respective matrices X and Y.
The key here is to keep the rows lined
up or to align the word vectors.
This means that if the first row of matrix
X contains the word cat, then the first
row of the matrix y should contain
the French word for cats, which is chat.
Now you may be asking, wait a minute,
if I already have the English words and
their French translations, why do I
need to train the model to do this?
Why not just save this information
in a key value mapping,
like a python dictionary?
Well, the nice thing is that
you can just collect a subset
of these words to find your
transformation matrix.
And if it works well, then the model can
be used to translate words that are not
part of your original training set.
So you only need to train on a subset
of the English French vocabulary and
not the entire vocabulary.
So let's see how to find a good matrix R.
First, we compare the translation X
times R with the actual French word
embeddings in Y.
We do this by taking the X matrix times
the R matrix and subtracting the Y matrix.
I'll explain in more detail
what this expression means and
also what this capital F subscript means.
But for now, think of it as a measure
of how far apart the attempt to
translation and
the actual French vectors are.
If you start with a random matrix R,
you can gradually improve
this matrix R in a loop.
First, compute the gradient by taking
the derivative of this loss function with
respect to the matrix R.
Next, update the matrix R by
subtracting the gradient,
but note that it's the gradient
rated by the learning grade alpha.
You can either pick a fixed number
of times to go through the loop or
check the loss at each iteration and
break out of the loop when the loss
falls between a certain threshold.
Now, let's explain what this notation
with the double vertical lines means.
This is measuring the magnitude or
the norm of a matrix.
Let's see an example of calculating this
norm and then see the general formula.
Let's say that the results
of XR- Y is a matrix.
We'll pretend for this example that
there's only two words in this dictionary,
which is the number of
rows in the matrix and
the word embeddings have two dimensions.
So that's the number of
columns in the matrix.
So matrices X, R, Y and
A are all 2 by 2 matrices.
If the matrix A looks like this,
then to calculate its norm,
we take 2 squared + 2 squared
+ 2 squared + 2 squared,
then take square roots, this gives us 4.
Here's the actual formula, you just
take all the elements in the matrix,
square them, and add them up.
This norm has the subscript F because
this is called the Frobenius norm.
Now, let's calculate
the Frobenius norm in code.
You start with a matrix A,
use np.square to square all the elements,
then use np.sum, then np.sqrt to get 4.
Try it out for yourself.
Know that in practice, it's easier to
minimize the square of the Frobenius norm.
In other words, we can cancel out
the square root by taking the square.
I'll explain in a moment why it's easier
to work with the square of the norm.
If we go back to our example with matrix
A, the square root of Frobenius norm
is just 2 squared + 2 squared
+ 2 squared + 2 squared.
Then we take the square root, but
then cancel it out by squaring that sum.
So the square of the Frobenius norm is 16.
Now, let's also go into detail on how
you can calculate the gradient of
the loss function.
The loss is defined as the square
of the Frobenius norm.
The gradient is the derivative of
the loss with respect to the matrix R.
If it looks like this,
the scalar m is the number of rows or
words in the subset that we're using for
training.
If you remember from calculus, this may
look familiar to you if you pretend that R
is a single variable instead of
a matrix and X and Y are constants.
If you don't recognize this, don't worry,
you won't need to know calculus here.
You'll be able to look up these
derivatives online if you ever need to.
Now going back to Y, it helps to use
the square of the Frobenius norm.
It's easier to take
the derivative of this expression
rather than dealing with the square
root that's in the Frobenius norm.
You will implement this
formula in the assignment.
>> You have seen how with
just one rainbow matrix
you can learn to align word vectors
from one language with another.
We will next go into K nearest neighbors.